Welcome back everyone to this lecture where we're going to discuss a basic flask web application and
how that relates to deployment.
We're not going to focus on taking our model our scalar and our prediction function and deploying them
using a flask web application.
In case you've never heard a flask flask is essentially a python based Web application framework flask
eases Python to handle the back end of a web application and the back end is where all our Python code
is.
It's where our model is running.
That's where we load the model the scalar and our function and then later on flask allows us to do is
then connect it to front end components.
Those are things like h team L and CSI s and JavaScript So what is this actually going to look like.
We're first going to construct just a basic flask app.
So in this lecture at the end we'll actually code out a very basic class application that will just
basically run a Web site saying the flask app is running it will have anything to do for model yet.
Once you understand how to run the flask application we're going to integrate our tensor flow model
the scalar and the prediction function and essentially write that into the flask application.
Once we have that ready to go it's time to interact with the flask application and we've actually deploying
our working model there's two ways we can do this.
One is through an API request and we can use something like postmen which is a program we'll show you
later on that can send Jason information to the flask application essentially interacting with it programmatically
and it gets back a result from the model such as set Tosa and we can do this with Python as well we
can use the request library that's built into Python send that over with Jason information and then
get back a result once you understand how to do that we're going to connect the flask application to
a front and each team I'll form.
So the way this works is a user will actually visit what looks to be a Web site with an H tamale form.
They'll provide numbers for each of the feature attributes that gets sent over to the model and then
the model runs through its prediction and returns back on a new page what it believes the predictions
should be.
So the user can actually interpret that OK so let's get started with just a basic class application
to begin.
We first need to download a text editor.
Now if you're familiar with any sort of web application programming you probably already have a text
editor.
But for our use case what we're going to be using is the sublime text editor.
So let's show you how to get it.
OK.
Here I am at Google dot com.
What you need to do in order to download the same text editor that we're going to be using to actually
build out our that py file.
Go ahead and just type in Sublime Text hit enter and the very first result should be deleted without
Sublime Text dot com.
Go ahead and click on this.
It's essentially a text editor.
Now previously we've been working with Python notebooks or if you've been writing stuff online.
Google collab online notebooks to actually run our flask web application though we need to run a dot
pie script just a Python script.
And that's because we can't run these things.
The Jupiter notebook because the Jupiter notebook itself runs in a browser and they'll begin to interfere
with flask because capability to run a web application.
So go ahead and go to sublime tech stock com and then click on download and then download the appropriate
version of this text editor for your operating system for Mac OS Windows when the 64 bit and then Linux
if you actually go to the Web site it should automatically detect what operating system you have.
You should see a little download button.
OK go ahead and download and install that.
Keep in mind you can use any text editor you prefer for writing that pie scripts.
So if you like visual studio if you like pie chart if you like Adam text editor those are all totally
ok you'll just write the exact same code we write It's a sublime text.
Now I've already downloaded Sublime Text so what I'm going to do is I'm going to open it up on my computer.
All right.
So here I have a sublime text opened up and what we're going to do is we're going to write a Python
script so instead of writing stuff as a notebook instead of we'll just write it as a dot pi script so
we can call it at the command line first thing want to do is write from flask import and then a capital
F Type out flask.
Now the first thing you'll notice here is that the actual syntax here isn't having any color it basically
showing you that it's a Python script.
And that's because we haven't saved this file.
So after typing out that line go ahead and say file save as and then what's absolutely critical here
is you need to save this in a location that you know.
So I'm going to say this in the same location as all our files for the section under 0 9 deployment.
So what I'll do here is I'm going to say this as my underscore example dot pi and then go ahead and
save that.
And once you save it with the DOT pie extension you should suddenly see Sublime Text code editor recognize
that you actually have python.
So you'll notice the highlighting occur.
All right.
So we're going to save from flask import flask and that's basically the first import we need to run.
Next we create the flask application by saying app is equal to flask.
Notice that the capital F and say underscore underscore name underscore underscore that essentially
creates your flask application and then flask uses a routing system to display information on a page.
And it uses this by using decorators.
So you say at app that route and then inside of this routing function you provide the actual web domain
path.
If you want this to occur on just the home page the index page.
Go ahead and just write a single flowers forward slash.
And then write a function below this called Def index.
And then we're going to return with this function just a header one or heading one.
We'll say H One flask app is running and then we'll close this off.
Notice it does all contain a Finnish string
if this is completely unfamiliar to you.
What this is doing as a heading one then I would highly suggest you check out a web development course
because you should learn about web development first before trying to deploy a model.
Again this is not a web development course here we're just discussing how to deploy a model given the
context the already know something about web development.
And then finally to run this file we'll say if underscore underscore name underscore underscore is equal
to and then in quotes here you'll say underscore underscore main underscore underscore colon and then
say app that run open and close parentheses go ahead and save that.
Absolutely crucial that you remember to say that and then open up your command prompt.
So again you need to make sure that you know exactly where this file is located on your computer.
I will be able to know where it's located on your computer but again notice here I just saved that to
my deployment location.
So under tensor flow to boot camp under 09 deployment I now have my example dot pi.
So let me go ahead and now open up my command prompt and run that file.
OK now here I am at my anaconda prompt you can use your also your normal command prompt for this but
use the same place where you've been activating your environment.
First thing I want to do is actually activate my environment so can go ahead and say activate or kinda
activate actually and then whatever name of your environment that you've been using.
So I went ahead and called mine TAF to GP you hit enter notice now it's activated and then we need to
make sure that we already have flask installed.
So say pip install flask and then hit enter.
In my case I have already installed it but just in case you haven't already.
Go ahead install it.
Remember to activate your environment first.
Now you need to change directory to where ever you save this my example dot pi.
So my case I'm going to see the two where I say that to you just keeps typing change directory until
you find where you actually saved it.
And I'm using tab to autocomplete.
I would highly suggest you use the same.
And now notice where I'm located I'm now located under that deployment folder where I say that that
pi file if you saved your dot pi file to your desktop or your downloads only to change directory toward
that is saved.
OK.
So now that I'm there what I'm going to do is say Python space and should now be able to start typing
my example or my underscore example hit tab let it autocomplete if it autocomplete it for you then you're
in the correct location if it did not autocomplete for you then you are in the incorrect location and
then go ahead and hit enter OK immediately upon hitting enter you should see something that looks like
this it'll give you a little warning saying its development server don't use it in a production deployment
that's totally OK that makes sense.
We are just developing this we haven't deployed this yet.
Later on when we actually deploy this live web we'll show you what changes you need to make.
The other thing you should notice here is control plus will actually quit this then kill your flask
application.
The other thing I notice is it says running on essentially a local connection a port five thousand.
So we need to do is you need to take this address and type it into your browser.
So do not use control plus C to copy this.
Otherwise they'll quit the server.
So go ahead and then go to your browser and type that in.
I'll bring in my browser now and now bringing in my actual web browser at that I see that heading one
flask app is running.
OK.
That means everything's working and then you can go back to your command line and do control policy
to kill the server.
Coming up next we're going to see how to combine this basic flask application that's turning to then
deploy our model with our return predictions function.
I'll see you there.